Recommended Timeouts
The timeouts below are examples / guidelines and are subject to the actual typical response times
seen at customer's end.
Each connection to our service involves 2 steps: connection and read. These two steps have
separate timeouts.
It is vital that you monitor timeouts and detect/ report any cases where a significant number of
timeouts are occurring ( e.g. > 0.2%)
Connection timeouts: (connect means establishing the initial socket connection)
In normal circumstances, it should be very fast to establish an initial connection. So we
recommend starting with a timeout of 0.5s. However it is vital to retry at least once, with a longer
timeout in case there are random/ networking/ system delays or hangs during the first connection.
We would suggest 1s. If that also times out, it is suggested to retry again with a longer timeout of
2s. You should consider other possible cases where even longer timeouts may be needed - for
example if there is a major temporary networking problem that could cause connections to be
delayed by a few seconds. Also, if your system is running in a location where connectivity is known
to be slow to the UK, there may be no point starting with a low timeout like 500ms. If you cannot
Travelfusion.com
implement any retries at all, then you will need to choose an appropriate 'catchall' connection
timeout such as 2s. However retries are highly recommended (not more than 3 ideally)
Data read timeouts: ('Data read' means the time from the successful socket opening, to the last
byte of the response being read)
● StartRouting: 4s read timeout, retry once with a 15 seconds timeout
● CheckRouting: 7s read timeout (and continue with the standard polling process in case of
a time out)
● ProcessDetails: 150s read timeout, no retry
● ProcessTerms: 150s read timeout, no retry
● StartBooking: 20s read timeout, do NOT retry, instead proceed to CheckBooking
● CheckBooking: 10s read timeout (and continue with the standard polling process in case
of a time out)
It is important that you monitor timeouts and detect/ report any cases where a significant number of
timeouts are occurring ( e.g. > 0.2%)
We recommend careful logging of the number and type of timeouts in all cases and a regular check
of this data to ensure that timeout rates are low. Each retry should be logged separately so that
you can see how many timeouts occur on the first attempt and how many on each of the
subsequent retries.